Andres, thank you very much.
Thanks to you.
I love being here.
I think your case is very
interesting and has huge potential.
Let me first explain
what Colvin is.
Colvin is a marketplace that connects
flowers growers with the end
customer with the aim of
disintermediating the industry.
That is, when we started to
develop the business model
we met with very traditional
players who had not
managed to solve
the problems of users.
The product is very expensive, it is of
very poor quality, that is, the flowers
last very little, the design is
usually bad and the solutions are naming.
I am forced to pay a lot for something
that lasts very little to a brand
that I don't feel identified with.
The problem was
mainly the supply
chain.
There were a lot of people in the middle.
How is the supply chain?
What you have told us in a minute,
we could break down into several
different topics.
You've talked about supply
chain, you've talked about
value proposition and there's also
an innovation theme in the business model.
Let's start with the supply
chain.
How is the supply chain in your
industry?
The supply chain is traditional.
There are some growers, i.e. people
who grow flowers, usually concentrated
in Latin America, the
Netherlands and Africa.
These people pass the flowers they have
exported to another person who makes
them arrive to auction in
the Netherlands.
In the Netherlands, flowers are
sold, i.e. a conventional auction
is held where customers
see the flowers and buy them.
In the Netherlands there are exporters
at that auction, that is, people who are
in the Netherlands and who export those
flowers to wholesalers.
With which we already have another figure
that is the exporter in the Netherlands
that sells the flowers to a grower,
importer, auction in the Netherlands,
exporter, wholesaler, store,
these are intermediaries, final
customer.
Before the final customer arrived,
the flowers had passed through six people.
Do they apply margins?
In the industry it has a particularity
that by being a precedent good, this
intermediation not only has a margin
problem, which is very
serious, that is, the markup
that exists between the grower
and the final customer can be between
10 and 15 times.
To explain to our students,
it has multiplied.
A flower worth 3 euros in
a florist is probably
worth less than 0.3 in the
grower.
It has that impact on costs and
has another very important impact
on flower quality, because the flower
is a precedent, that is, if it passes
through six hands before it
reaches you, those are days
of flower life.
So what we decided was that
this had no sense.
There were a lot of people here
who didn't bring value to the end
user, which is what has to obsess us.
Then we decided that today with
technology and logistics, the
end point of the supply chain
could be linked to the
end user.
What happens?
You are creating a marketplace that connects.
What happens is that innovation is
not only that, because there is
already some marketplace in
these sectors, but the great
innovation is that you are connecting
the end user, not with the
previous link, which are the
stores, the service providers, but
you are going directly to what
you call growers, which are the
farmers who grow the flowers.
And that's how we impact the
business model?
This allows us, in terms of business
model, to reduce the price.
It is not correct, because there
is a lot of savings in the purchases,
that savings can be transferred to
the end user, because we thought
it was unfair that the user had to
pay 60 euros for a branch of flowers.
Cost savings that are
translated into a price reduction?
and correct.
A thing that used to be worth 60 euros
now is worth 20 and a very significant
increase in the duration of the flowers.
That is, the flowers usually lasted
three or four days when you bought
them.
Colvin flowers last most likely
more than 15 days.
The flowers that come before you
have passed by fewer hands.
Less days ago the distance between
the point where they have been cut
and the user receives them is
very short, when usually the flowers
that the end user receives may
have spent up to 15 days making
wheel-through the world, literally.
There is a very curious case that is
that farmers in Spain cut them, send
them to Holland, the flowers return
from Holland to Spain and go to the
final customer.
There are many movements
in the supply chain that only
have to impact the quality
of flowers, on the durability
of flowers.
It has no sense.
It is worth, that is, if we make
a summary of what you have
told us, innovation in the
business model, a flower marketplace
that connects buyers with the
first link, with producers,
with growers, which allows
you to save a bestial cost,
which impacts on a lower
price.
Therefore, the value proposal
improves a lot and improves a lot
not only because it is much cheaper,
but because it is better because
the product arrives much
sooner.
And how is this?
That is, if we compare this
value proposition, how is this
helping to grow?
Well, at the end of this, what
we see, and I give you a very
funny data, that is that the 93%
of Colvin users, from a group
we have analyzed, says they buy
more flowers or quite a few more
flowers than they bought before.
In the end, when you turn away from
the category of luxury, from
the category of buying flowers for
special occasions, because this
is a luxury product, and you put
it in a recurring consumer good,
what we say is that we
do not sell flowers.
That is, Colvin is not
a florist, we are opening a
new category.
That is, we are offering users
the opportunity to buy flowers at
a much more competitive price,
of a much higher quality and a
brand with which they feel identified,
and that generates new
moments of consumption.
It's super interesting, because
people did not buy flowers repeatedly
before, and what we find
is that now with our business
model people buy flowers
with a lot of recurrence.
That is, something that was before for
once in life, now I take the mobile
and in two clicks I bought the flowers
and I order them because they cost
me 20 and are of a very good quality
to a brand that I feel identified
with, versus I go to the florist,
pay 60 for a thing that lasts
a little and I don't like
it.
In the end, we are
growing the market.
When I listen to you, I realize
that there is a...
Traditionally, market sizing has
been a very important
variable with which you usually
estimate the potential of
many, how much you can get, etc.
In your case, it makes no sense.
You are creating that market.
We are creating a market.
I don't know how much...
What is the size of the shopping
market in Spain?
The volume of purchase in Spain
is one billion euros per year.
For you, that metric doesn't
really matter, because you'll
be able to generate
a lot more.
Yes, that's what we think,
that in the end we, and again,
I think we rely strictly
within the world of flowers.
We are opening up a new category,
a new market, in which new moments
of use appear, people who did
not consume flowers that
go to consume.
We are finally capturing market
share of other categories.
I also think it is important...
So are you capturing?
Are you using zero wallet?
Yes, exactly the right.
I am spending...
I have 50 euros in my pocket to
give someone something.
I don't have 50 euros in my pocket
to spend a flower once in my life.
I would be even more ambitious.
You are probably going further.
Not only are you earning zero wallet
on the gift, but you are likely to
be earning zero wallet on the gift.
I spend the month X in empty caprices.
Well now I'm going to incorporate
the flower gift as something
recurring, because the price allows
it to be an impulse purchase,
no longer perceive it as something
for a very special thing.
and correct.
And the price accompanied by a
brand, we made a very firm bet on the
brand from the beginning,
that is, we believed that the solutions
that were on the market were
commoditized solutions,
that is, there was no clear element
of differentiation between
the proposals of the difficult
competitors.
actually is.
It is very interesting, because
I have used some of the current platforms
and basically choose a little
by price and then, Kunaz, you
have used one because it arrives
on time and because when they send
it to another person the packaging
is attractive, but it is very
comfortably.
And when that branch arrived,
the person who received it probably
didn't know where it came from and
didn't care much.
Why is it?
Because it was a flower branch.
We sell columns.
People are so funny because
they don't talk about it.
I'm going to buy a flower branch,
I'm going to buy a colvin.
I was given a collar.
So that...
The fact that you can assign
a brand or product, a name, a
brand, a surname, speaks of
all this change that you mentioned,
how really the fact of opening
a new category and not getting
into frontal competition
with people that are much
bigger than you, allows you
to grow very fast by offering
solutions to users who did
not necessarily consume your
product before.